fiss, the inotify file server synchroniser

fiss monitors a directory tree and pushes changed files out to a server
after a delay. The program has two main purposes: to automate remote
backups, and to push changes to a local copy immediately to the server
during web development.

The basic usage is:
  fiss /local/path server:destpath/
By default, fiss will push a changed file if it has not changed again
for 60 seconds, or if it changed more than five minutes ago and hasn't
been synchronised since then. The -d N and -D N options change these
respectively. A value of zero will cause immediate push, which is what
you want for the web development case.

fiss supports multiple synchronisation mechanisms. The default is rsync,
and dest is passed as-is to the rsync client, and scp is available with
the --scp option. There is also the ability to trigger a custom command:
with --custom, the destination is treated as a pattern for a shell
command invocation (with system). An instance of "#p" in the pattern
will be replaced with the changed file's path.

Neither rsync nor scp supports deleting individual files, so fiss also
provides a --delete-cmd CMD option. The CMD is run with system and
subject to the same expansion as a custom command, with the following
expansions:
 #p   local file path
 #d   destination as given
 #h   part of destination before first :
 #r   part of destination after first :
Each deleted file is processed individually. The --delete option must be
passed to enable file deletion for a destination (--no-delete to
disable).

File paths can be skipped by glob patterns given with the --skip option.
Each --skip is checked with fnmatch(2) for each path, and any matches
are not processed further. The default configuration skips files that
look like editor backups, matching *~ or #*#. Use --clear-skips to erase
the list of skipped patterns.

Multiple destinations can be provided. Each inherits the settings most
recently given on the command line. Destinations may have different
timeouts, types, commands, and skip settings.

By default, fiss will fork into the background. Pass the -f option to
keep it in the foreground and output descriptive data.

fiss is distributed under the GNU GPL 3 or later (see LICENCE). It
currently depends on inotify, which probably makes it Linux-only, but it
should be possible to make it work with equivalent systems on other
platforms (patches welcome!).

